# Create Your First Dataset

In labelit `datasets` contain `documents`. Each document has some optional metadata, an optional text file, and an optional audio recording.
A document may contain both text and audio, and must contain at least one audio file or one text file.

## Importing the provided example dataset

To help you get started, we've created an example dataset. It's a zip file located at 
`backend/labelit/tests/data/example_dataset.zip` relative to the project root folder.

If you inspect this dataset, you will have an idea of the required format for import.

``` 
example_dataset/
    ├── documents
    │   ├── file1.meta.json
    │   ├── file1.txt
    │   ├── file1.wav
    │   ├── file2.meta.json
    │   ├── file2.txt
    │   └── file2.wav
    └── meta.json

```

Notice the `meta.json` file at the root of the dataset. This file must contain a `name` and may contain any other
metadata you'd like to associate with this dataset.

To import this dataset into labelit, login to [labelit](localhost:8080/) *as a QA user* and navigate to the "Datasets" page.
There, click on "Import dataset" and follow the steps to upload `example_dataset.zip`. In your list of datasets, "Dummy dataset" should now appear.

## Importing your own dataset

To import your own dataset, follow closely the format of `example_dataset`:

* at the root, there must be a file named `meta.json`, containing at the mimimum the name of the dataset

    ``` 
    {
        "name": "the name of my own dataset"
    }
    ```
* at the root, there must be a `documents` folder
    * for each document, this folder may contain a metadata file named `<document_identifier>.meta.json`
    * for each document, there may be an audio (wave) file named `<document_identifier>.wav`
    * for each document, there may be an text file named `<document_identifier>.txt` containing the associated text
