# Register Users

Labelit relies on the Django administration console, or Django admin for short, to register new users.

Django admin can be accessed at the address `<backend-service-url>:<backend-service-port>/admin/`.

In the case of a local deployment with the default configuration, it is accessible at
`localhost:8000/admin/`

## Users created by default for local installations

For convenience, when running labelit locally, three users will automatically be created:

* One *superuser*, with all rights inside the Django admin at `localhost:8000/admin/`. Username: `admin`, Email: "admin@labelit.com", Password: `adminpassword`.
* One *QA user*, who can assign and review annotation work. You can use this user to login to labelit with QA permissions at `localhost:8081`.
Username: 'QAUser', Email: 'qa@qa.com', Password: 'QApassword'. 
* Two *annotator users*, who can annotate. You can use either or both to login to labelit (`localhost:8081`) and annotate.
    * annotator1: Username: 'Annotator1', email: "a1@annotator.com", password: "a1password"
    * annotator2: Username: 'Annotator2', email: "a2@annotator.com", password: "a2password"

**In Labelit, login uses the combination email + password.** The username is *not* used.

Credentials and other information can be accessed and modified via the [Django admin](localhost:8000/admin/)

## Adding a user

Login to the django admin at `localhost:8000/admin` with the superuser account.

To add a new user:

* click on the "+ Add" link next to the "Users" row in the "USERS" table.
* fill out the first part of the form where you specify the username and password
* now fill out the remaining fields
     * the **Active** checkbox is checked by default. Leave it unchanged.
     * the **Staff** status determines whether the user is a *QA user* or an *annotator*. *QA users* (`is_staff` checked) can monitor and review
annotators' work, but cannot annotate. *Annotators* (`is_staff` unchecked) can annotate but only see their own work except for
some aggregate statistics. If you are adding an *annotator* user, leave this unchecked.
     * the **Supueruser** status determines whether the user has access to the Django admin.
