# Register Users

Labelit relies on the Django administration console, or Django admin for short, to register new users.

Django admin can be accessed at the address `<backend-service-url>:<backend-service-port>/admin/`.

In the case of a development installation with the default configuration, it is accessible at
http://localhost:8000/admin/.

## Users created for development installations

If you follow the steps for a local installation, three users will be created:

* One *superuser*, with all rights inside the Django admin at `localhost:8000/admin/`.
     - Email: `admin@labelit.com`
     - Password: `adminpassword`
* One *QA user*, who can assign and review annotation work. You can use this user to login to labelit with QA permissions at `localhost:8080`.
     - Email: `qa@qa.com`
     - Password: `QApassword`
* Two *annotator users*, who can annotate. You can use either or both to login to labelit (`localhost:8080`) and annotate.
     * Annotator 1: 
          - Email: `a1@annotator.com`
          - Password: `a1password`
     * Annotator 2: 
          - Email: `a2@annotator.com`
          - Password: `a2password`

**In Labelit, login uses the combination email + password.** The username is *not* used.

Credentials and other information can be accessed and modified via the [Django admin](http://localhost:8000/admin/)

## Adding a user

Login to the django admin at http://localhost:8000/admin with the superuser account.

To add a new user:

* click on the "+ Add" link next to the "Users" row in the "USERS" table.
* fill out the first part of the form where you specify the username and password
* now fill out the remaining fields
     * the **Active** checkbox is checked by default. Leave it unchanged.
     * the **Staff** status determines whether the user is a *QA user* or an *annotator*. *QA users* (`is_staff` checked) can monitor and review
annotators' work, but cannot annotate. *Annotators* (`is_staff` unchecked) can annotate but only see their own work except for some aggregate statistics. If you are adding an *annotator* user, leave this unchecked.
     * the **Supueruser** status determines whether the user has access to the Django admin.
